README.md, before:

# Change Scribe

Change Scribe is a VS Code extension that automates the generation of semantic change logs. It uses AI to analyze your Git commit history and create meaningful, well-formatted changelog entries.

## Features

- Automatically generate changelogs from your Git commit history
- Use AI to create concise and meaningful descriptions for each change
- Support for both OpenAI and Azure OpenAI as LLM providers
- Customize the changelog format (Conventional Commits or Keep a Changelog)
- Interactive UI for viewing and customizing the generated changelog
- Save the changelog to a file or commit it directly to your repository
- Limit the number of commits included in the changelog

## Requirements

- Visual Studio Code v1.85.0 or higher
- Git repository
- OpenAI API key or Azure OpenAI credentials

## Installation

1. Open Visual Studio Code
2. Go to the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Change Scribe"
4. Click Install

## Configuration

Before using Change Scribe, you need to set up a few configuration options:

1. Open VS Code settings (File > Preferences > Settings)
2. Search for "Change Scribe"
3. Set your preferred LLM provider (OpenAI or Azure OpenAI)
4. Provide the necessary API credentials:
   - For OpenAI: Set your OpenAI API key and model name
   - For Azure OpenAI: Set your API key, endpoint, deployment name, and model name
5. (Optional) Choose your preferred changelog format
6. (Optional) Set the maximum number of commits to include

## Usage

1. Open a project with a Git repository
2. Open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
3. Type "Generate Changelog" and select the command
4. The generated changelog will appear in a new webview panel
5. Use the "Save Changelog" button to save the changelog to a file
6. Use the "Commit Changelog" button to commit the changelog directly to your repository

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

(feat|fix) added progress indications, changed order of config & added icon

README.md, after:

# <p align="center" style="display: flex; align-items: center;"><img src="media/icon.png" width="50" height="50" alt="Change Scribe Logo">&nbsp;Change Scribe</p>

Change Scribe is an VS Code extension that automates the generation of semantic change logs for your repositories and project. It uses LLMs to analyze your Git commit history and creates meaningful, well-formatted, semantic changelog entries.

## Features

- Automatically generate changelogs from your Git commit history
- Use LLMs to create concise and meaningful descriptions for each change
- Support for both OpenAI and Azure OpenAI as LLM providers
- Smart changelog management:
  - Append to existing CHANGELOG.md
  - Preserve existing content
  - Organize changes by type (Added, Changed, Fixed, etc.)
- Progress indicators for all operations
- Interactive UI for viewing and customizing the generated changelog
- Save the changelog to a file or commit it directly to your repository
- Limit the number of commits included in the changelog

## Requirements

- Visual Studio Code v1.85.0 or higher
- Git repository
- OpenAI API key or Azure OpenAI credentials

## Installation

### Via Marketplace
To download from the Visual Studio marketplace, visit the [Change Scribe](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kwesinavilot.changescribe) page.

### Via VS Code
1. Open Visual Studio Code
2. Go to the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Change Scribe"
4. Click Install

## Configuration

Before using Change Scribe, you need to set up a few configuration options:

1. Open VS Code settings (File > Preferences > Settings)
2. Search for "Change Scribe"
3. Set your preferred LLM provider (OpenAI or Azure OpenAI)
4. Provide the necessary API credentials:
   - For OpenAI: Set your OpenAI API key and model name
   - For Azure OpenAI: Set your API key, endpoint, deployment name, and model name
5. (Optional) Choose your preferred changelog format
6. (Optional) Set the maximum number of commits to include

## Usage

1. Open a project with a Git repository
2. Open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
3. Type "Generate Changelog" and select the command
4. The extension will show progress as it:
   - Analyzes your commit history
   - Generates descriptions using AI
   - Creates or updates your changelog
5. Review the generated changelog in the webview
6. Use the "Save Changelog" button to save to CHANGELOG.md
7. Use the "Commit Changelog" button to commit the changes

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/kwesinavilot/changescribe/pulls).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
